 Celebrate International Women’s Day on Thursday with a superhero and an Olympian. And ponder the pitfalls of fame on “Atlanta.”  JESSICA JONES on Netflix. They don’t make superheros much more cynical than Jessica Jones, who is played with sass, sarcasm and cutting bitterness by Krysten Ritter in this series. After playing an ensemble role in “Marvel’s The Defenders,” Ms. Ritter is back in the center of the action as Jessica hits an identity crisis and takes on a new investigation. The long shadow of Kilgrave, made into a terrifying villain by David Tennant, looms over it all. LADIES FIRST on Netflix. Deepika Kumari grew up in poverty in rural India, where social norms dictated that women remain in domestic life. Instead, she took up archery and discovered her extraordinary talent. In just three to four years she mastered the sport, eventually becoming the world’s top ranked archer at the age of 18 and appearing in the Olympics in London and Rio. This short documentary navigates her improbable rise and continued success (she’s still just 23). THE OATH on Crackle. O.K., so it turns out 50 Cent didn’t actually invest in Bitcoin. But he’s had real success in his television ventures, most notably as executive producer and star in the hit show “Power.” Now he’s throwing his weight behind “The Oath,” which explores police gangs. The show was created by Joe Halpin, a former undercover cop in the South Central section of Los Angeles. Sean Bean stars, bringing the same brooding intensity to street fights that he displayed in the fantasy worlds of “Lord of the Rings” and “Game of Thrones.” LIBERATION DAY on Sundance Now. It sounds like a tale straight from the Seth Rogen playbook, but it actually happened: In 2015, an art-rock band from Slovenia known for its fascist aesthetic played a concert in North Korea. This documentary shows the band, Laibach — which had previously been banned in Yugoslavia for its use of imagery associated with totalitarianism — preparing to perform in Pyongyang for the country’s 70th anniversary of liberation from Japanese colonial rule. In his review in The New York Times, Glenn Kenny described it as a “consistently understated chronicle of Westerners who are very carefully playing with fire.” ATLANTA 10 p.m. on FX. “Is this simply Season 2 of ‘Atlanta’? Is it an entirely new series?” James Poniewozik asked in his review in The Times, before concluding: “It is the same. And it is different. And that’s a wonderful, surreal, hilarious thing.” The second episode, “Sportin’ Waves,” focuses on Paper Boi (Brian Tyree Henry) and his realization that his fame comes with a lot of unwanted baggage, whether in interactions with corporate yes-men or with drug dealers. Earn spends an eventful day (and a lot of money) at the mall.