 A few years ago, I installed a web browser extension that swapped out the word “millennial” any time it appeared on a website in my Chrome browser. In its place? The ridiculous phrase, “Snake People.” Why? Well, why not. The word millennial was being used to describe many different kinds of millennials in many different millennial think pieces. Once I installed the extension, any tendentiously oversaturated sentence would be transformed into something absurdly sublime. The creator of the extension, a designer named Eric Bailey, eventually added other preposterous text-swapping constructions to his software. And so my web browsing experience was peppered not only with mentions of Snake People, but also “Zolom’s Children” (for the emerging Generation Z) and the “Time of Shedding and Cold Rocks.” (for the Great Recession). Harmless fun! An amusing distraction for myself during my time online. Or so I thought. That text-swap functionality about the Great Recession got me in a spot of trouble last week. As many people around the internet noticed, The New York Times had to issue a correction when an errant copy/paste job led to the fictitious “Time of Shedding and Cold Rocks.” appearing in a trade policy article I worked on. Browser extensions, when used properly and sensibly, can make your internet experience more productive and efficient. They can make thesaurus recommendations more accessible, create to-do lists in new tabs, or change the color scheme of web pages to make them more readable. There are thousands available for Chrome (or other browsers like Firefox and Safari) that you can easily download and try. Just click through, follow the directions to install, and a little bit of web code will leave these Easter eggs of joy and efficiency for you to find while you write your emails, read articles, work in Google docs or do anything else within your browser. Unfortunately — if somewhat comically — my use of that extension last week was far from joyful or efficient. But, despite my embarrassment to have distracted from the good work of my colleagues, I still passionately recommend the subversive, web-altering extensions you can find in a category the Chrome Web Store lists as “fun.” These goofy diversions inject subtle, delightful surprises into your browsing experience, breaking up the tedium that sometimes comes with being a deskbound office worker. Visual extensions are among the most popular of this genre. According to the publicly listed statistics in the Google Web Store, 152,000 users have installed the Libdoge extension, which allows you to overlay pictures of dogs on top of web pages as you browse. More than 313,000 users have the TabbyCat extension, which gives you your own interactive digital cat to feed and pet. Befitting the community of code-savvy folks who make extensions, many of these browser add-ons satirize tired technology tropes. For example: You can replace “blockchain” with the phrase “multiple copies of a giant Excel spreadsheet;” or “internet of things” with “wifi enabled toaster;” or the nebulous-sounding “the cloud” with “butts.” Fans of Randall Munroe’s xkcd can install an extension that brings one of his comics to life, turning words commonly found in news articles into slightly more entertaining variations. The benign word “rebuild” becomes “avenge”; the phrase “congressional leaders” morphs into “river spirits.” There are, of course, plenty of political text-replacing extensions. “The Daily Show” created an extension that renders President Trump’s tweets as if they were “a child’s scribble.” Another extension blocks mentions of the name “Hillary Clinton” from appearing on web pages. And if you want to unlock your own creativity, there is also an extension called Word Replacer that allows you to choose and update your own catalog of words and phrases to be swapped in and out. However, a word of caution: If you do install these extensions, please remember the dimensions of the alternate digital reality you’ve created for yourself. Especially when copying and pasting text at work.