 Season 22 of “The Bachelor” ends with a final rose ceremony. And the food-focused drama “Delicious” returns to Acorn TV. THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC. This season’s bachelor may not be a fan favorite, but that hasn’t stopped viewers from tuning into the reality show. In this three-hour season finale, the racecar driver turned real estate agent Arie Luyendyk Jr. introduces the final two contestants, Becca Kufrin and Lauren Burnham, to his parents and decides who will become his bride to be. Despite last week’s unexpected appearance by Ms. Kufrin’s ex-boyfriend, the series “is a self-sustaining ecosystem with few surprises,” wrote Carla Correa of The New York Times, who spent a day engrossed in Bachelor Nation. CLEOPATRA 8 p.m. on Smithsonian. Historians recount the remarkable life of the Egyptian queen in this two-part dramatic reconstruction. The first episode covers Cleopatra’s upbringing under the violent and incestuous Ptolemaic dynasty, her ascension to ruler by the age of 21 and her efforts to save the dynasty, and Egypt, by seducing Julius Caesar. DIVIDED STATES 9 p.m. on A&amp;E. This new documentary series revisits acts of racial violence across the United States and Europe and looks at communities’ efforts to tackle the problem. These first two episodes focus on an altercation at a Pennsylvania high school prompted by a racist Snapchat video, and a verbal attack on a Portland, Ore., train that turned deadly. SHIFTING GEARS WITH AARON KAUFMAN 10:17 p.m. on Discovery. The car guru Aaron Kaufman returns to Discovery with this new series filmed out of his shop in Dallas, where he’ll be customizing Ford F100 trucks with a team of handpicked builders. DELICIOUS on Acorn TV. Binge-watchers can zip through this British drama in no time. Iain Glen (“Game of Thrones”) stars as a celebrity chef in Cornwall who becomes entangled in a love triangle with his ex-wife, Gina (Dawn French), also an accomplished chef, and his second wife, Sam (Emilia Fox). The first season took an unexpected turn in the finale (no spoilers here). The second season picks up with Gina and Sam running the successful Penrose Hotel, where a professional decision on Sam’s part tests their working relationship. THE NEW RADICAL (2017) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu. The self-described techno-anarchist Cody Wilson made headlines in 2015, when he sued the State Department over his downloadable instructions for building a 3-D printable gun. The government threatened him with jail time and million-dollar fines; Mr. Wilson pushed back by claiming his gun design is constitutionally protected free speech. Mr. Wilson then teamed with Amir Taaki, an English programmer, to create a controversial Bitcoin application that encrypts transactions. This documentary by the director Adam Bhala Lough delves into the pair’s work and ideals. “It’s possible to fully, and vehemently, disagree with Mr. Wilson and Mr. Taaki yet still see their points,” Ken Jaworowski wrote in The Times. “That can make ‘The New Radical’ unsettling. It also makes it a film worth watching.”