 Good morning on this dusted Tuesday. A winter weather advisory is in effect. For updated information on your commute, check the schedules for the subway, Metro-North, Long Island Rail Road, New Jersey Transit and NYC Ferry before heading out. Power down your phone. (As soon as you’re finished reading New York Today, of course.) How does it feel? As we sat in on the corruption trial of Joseph Percoco recently, we found ourselves forcibly phoneless. The courthouse had required us to check our electronics before entering the building. The experience was at once inconvenient and enjoyable, disorienting and liberating. And after a day with no texting, email or internet, it occurred to us that the courtroom, of all places, might be one of the few spots left in the city where New Yorkers could fully disconnect. So began our quest to find others. The consensus, when we checked in with more than a dozen local museums, libraries and cultural spaces, was that these phone-free sacred spots are hard to come by. Cellphones are banned from some federal buildings and from jails. (They were, not so long ago, also banned from city schools.) At performance halls, Dave Chappelle, Alicia Keys, Guns N’ Roses and others have taken to using Yondr — a technology that locks fans’ phones in pouches during shows. Phones are prohibited at Sketch Night at the Society of Illustrators, where models pose nude, and at the immersive-theater production “Sleep No More,” once described as a “movable orgy.” And the Alamo Drafthouse in Downtown Brooklyn vows to kick out those who text mid-movie. On the menu at Sfoglia, alongside the brussels sprouts with maple butter, is a restaurant rule: “No cellphones, computers or electronics, please.” But perhaps our favorite discovery was the National Day of Unplugging, which we observed Friday at the Museum at Eldridge Street. Upon entering the Lower East Side synagogue, a National Historic Landmark built in 1887, we dropped our iPhone into a “sleeping bag” and left it with reception. We sat wordless and motionless in the sanctuary, listening to its creaking pine floors, the inhale-exhale of another visitor and the spectacular silence in between. Staring at the stained glass windows long enough — the shiny blue ombré with gold stars — we began to see “Goodnight Moon” swirl into “The Starry Night.” We forgot where we were for an afternoon — on a street with sirens, scaffolding and soggy snow — and it was absolutely delightful. Here’s what else is happening: More snow. Flurries (of up to three inches) and wind may affect your commute this morning — a winter weather advisory remains in effect until noon. Brave the cold: Spring is a week away. • The lightly regulated, little-known industry that runs “doors-off” helicopter flights is facing scrutiny after the deadly East River crash. [New York Times] • More on the crash: One of the victims was a firefighter; another was a journalist. None were older than 34. | How the harnesses, meant to secure passengers, made escaping the helicopter harder. •  President Trump has claimed that properties bearing his name are more valuable than those of his competitors. New studies show otherwise. [New York Times] • Prosecutors spared the jury from having to review gruesome autopsy photos in the case of a nanny accused of killing two children. [New York Times] • The jurors in the corruption trial of Joseph Percoco, a former senior aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, announced for the second time that they were deadlocked. [New York Times] • Governor Cuomo is prepared to declare a state of emergency at the New York City Housing Authority. [New York Times] • The Metropolitan Opera fired James Levine, one of America’s highest-profile conductors, after finding evidence of sexual misconduct. [New York Times] • Lt. Col. Floyd J. Carter Sr., a long-serving police detective and Tuskegee Airman, has died at 95 years old. [AM New York] • New York millionaires’ groups ask lawmakers to raise their taxes, claiming it is the “right thing to do morally.” [New York Daily News] • The small upstate town of Plattsburgh is considering an 18-month moratorium on bitcoin mining. [Money] • Why Brooklyn, despite having almost no legal firearms business, has a big stake in the gun-sales debate. [The Bridge] • Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Bodega Breakfast” • For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing. • A discussion and screening of “A Footnote in Ballet History,” a film about Egypt’s prima ballerina Magda Saleh, at the 14th Street Y in the East Village. 6 p.m. [$10, tickets here] • “Journey of Hope: The Irish in New York,” a lecture about their history and culture from immigrant beginnings to present, at Church of St. Brigid in Alphabet City. 6:30 p.m. [Free] • The Overseas Press Club hosts a panel on social media censorship in China, and the issues it creates for writers, at Club Quarters in Midtown. 6:30 p.m. [Free, register here] • “These Are We,” an improv comedy show about the television drama “This Is Us,” starring actors who have never seen it, at the Peoples Improv Theater Loft in Chelsea. 7 p.m. [$8] • Looking ahead: On March 21, TimesTalks hosts a conversation about “Isle of Dogs,” with the director Wes Anderson and the actors Jason Schwartzman and Kunichi Nomura, at the New School. • Nets host Raptors, 7:30 p.m. (YES). Knicks host Mavericks, 7:30 p.m. (MSG). Red Bulls host Club Tijuana, 8 p.m. • Alternate-side parking remains in effect until March 29. • For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts &amp; Entertainment guide. What better time to find some peace of mind than Brain Awareness Week? Doctors, scientists, comedians and academics from local universities, museums and other organizations are hosting the weeklong series to educate New Yorkers about brain research. Some highlights: Today, learn about memory at “The Time-Traveling Brain” or about how brains adapt to care for newborns at “Love: It’s All in Your Head.” On Wednesday, explore how expectations influence reality at “The Science of Vision.” On Thursday, learn about how stress alters the brain (and when too much stress can be harmful) at “More Than a Feeling,” or catch a brainy comedy show at “The Symposium.” On Friday, join neuroscientists to explore the human side of brain research, or how your brain processes sex, drugs and rock ’n’ roll. This weekend, on Saturday or Sunday evening, see a hip-hop comedy show about the study of consciousness. And should you be searching for more ways to stretch your lobes, here is the full list of events. New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here. For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook. What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday.  Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter. You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.