 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Stephen Hawking has died, America’s top spy is set to become its next top diplomat and Germany gets a new government. Here’s the news: • Stephen Hawking, the physicist and best-selling author, has died at 76. His mind and spirit soared past physical paralysis, making discoveries that changed our understanding of the universe. Here’s a recent video of the renowned physicist speaking of transcending humanity’s limitations through advanced technology. _____ • Rex Tillerson is said to have learned of his dismissal by being shown President Trump’s tweet naming Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, as U.S. secretary of state. Mr. Pompeo and Gina Haspel, his designated successor at the helm of the C.I.A., are policy hawks. (Ms. Haspel had a leading role in the torture of detainees.) Their appointments await Senate confirmation. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump ventured to California, the blue bastion of liberal resistance, with a combative message on immigration. A by-election in Pennsylvania has become an unexpectedly narrow test of whether Democrats can make inroads with voters who supported Mr. Trump in 2016. _____ • Mr. Tillerson’s firing was announced only hours after he tied Russia to the March 4 poisoning of a former Russian spy in England with the deadly nerve agent Novichok. Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, dismissed accusations that Moscow was to blame for the poisoning as “nonsense.” Politicians and policy experts have suggested a number of punitive actions Prime Minister Theresa May could take against Russia. It remains unclear how willing she is to wield them. _____  • Germany’s economy could hardly be in better shape as Angela Merkel begins her fourth term as chancellor today. But the political compromise with the Social Democrats that allowed her to remain in power risks bringing that boom to an end, our correspondent reports from Frankfurt. And some even forecast France to take over as the eurozone’s driving force. (Above, the Social Democrats’ headquarters in Berlin.) _____  • China unveiled new superagencies to tackle three potential threats to the Communist Party’s rule: financial recklessness, corruption and environmental pollution. On a lighter note, the carefully scripted pageantry of an annual gathering of lawmakers in Beijing was punctured by a journalist’s unscripted expression of disgust over a colleague’s fawning. Censors struggled to contain an outpouring of satire. • More than half of the fresh fruit Americans buy is imported. Is that a bad thing? Our food team examines the pros and cons for farmers and consumers. • Google is joining Facebook in banning advertising for Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. • Protectionism is porous and can be gamed, and the fleeting gains from tariffs can bring long-term costs, our columnist writes. • Marketers have turned to new kinds of detective work to expose influencers on Instagram who use fake accounts. •  Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Syria, more than a hundred people left the besieged enclave of eastern Ghouta after rebel forces reached a medical evacuation agreement with Russia, the Syrian government’s ally. [The New York Times] • The Palestinian Authority said a roadside bomb blast was a failed attempt to assassinate its prime minister, Rami Hamdallah. There were questions about motives and timing. [The New York Times] • The European Court of Human Rights said that Spain had wrongfully condemned two Catalans for burning a photograph of the king and queen in 2007. [The New York Times] • The police in Slovakia detained an Italian businessman who was a subject of a murdered journalist’s last report, holding him on an unrelated Italian drug charge. [Reuters] • United Airlines apologized after a dog died on a U.S. domestic flight during which it was stored in an overhead compartment on the orders of a flight attendant, rather than under the seat. [The New York Times] • A poor Afghan farming family named their son Donald Trump, hoping for good luck. But the choice has only added to their misfortune. [The New York Times] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Is a late-career change worth it? • Check-in time hours away? In some cities, you can ditch those annoying bags. • Recipe of the day: Do some throwback cooking with a recipe for spaghetti primavera.  •  A new generation of bakers is trying to reinvent the most iconic French patisserie, the croissant. Some fear the rise of “Frankenpastries.” • In memoriam: Sala Kirschner, who audaciously hid letters and postcards over the five years she spent in seven Nazi forced-labor camps, died at 94. • Champions League update: Sevilla reached the quarterfinals for the first time after beating Manchester United. Roma also advanced. • In an effort to reduce crowds at the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican collaborated on a multimedia extravaganza, including a soundtrack by Sting. But will visitors choose this over the real thing? • Finally, a tale of early human resilience: The largest volcanic eruption of the last two million years, which occurred about 74,000 years ago, did not nearly extinguish humanity. A new study suggests that, instead, our ancestors thrived in its aftermath. The reaction to our collaboration last week with The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, was overwhelmingly positive, so we’re doing it again. Each week, Wordplay’s editor, Deb Amlen, will highlight the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles. This week’s word: aubade. It was the answer to a clue in last Friday’s crossword: “Poem greeting the dawn.” (It might also be clued as “morning music,” “Morning song” or “Sunrise song.”) An aubade (pronounced o-BAHD) can also be a musical composition about the morning. Its counterpart, a poem or song about the evening, is a nocturne. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the word was first used in 1678 and was adopted by the French from the Spanish word “alba,” meaning sunrise. Ben Zimmer, the language columnist for The Wall Street Journal, noted that “A skim of Google Books shows that aubade appeared chiefly in French sources, or French-English dictionaries, until the early 19th century.” An example of an aubade would be John Donne’s “The Sun Rising,” which, if nothing else, shows that the English poet was clearly not a morning person. With that, we wish you a wonderful start to your day. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.